Blog: Assets for Data & AI (#3770)
kestra-io/docs: src/contents/blogs/2026-01-26-data-assets-use-cases/index.md

---
title: "How Kestra's Assets Give You Complete Pipeline Lineage"
description: "Kestra 1.2 introduces Assets, a unified way to track both data artifacts and infrastructure resources across your workflows, giving you lineage that reflects what your pipelines actually touch."
date: 2026-01-26T13:00:00
category: Solutions
author: 
  name: "Parham Parvizi"
  image: pparvizi
  role: Solutions Engineer
image: ./main.png
---

> [Kestra 1.2](https://kestra.io/blogs/release-1-2) introduces Assets, a way to track both data artifacts (tables, datasets, files) and infrastructure resources (buckets, VMs, compute) in a single inventory. Every workflow declares what it consumes and produces, and Kestra builds the dependency graph automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kestra 1.2](../release-1-2/index.md) introduces Assets, a way to track both data artifacts (tables, datasets, files) and infrastructure resources (buckets, VMs, compute) in a single inventory. Every workflow declares what it consumes and produces, and Kestra builds the dependency graph automatically.
```

          - "echo 'Python upgrade and check completed for {{ taskrun.value }}'"
```

This workflow queries the asset inventory for all machines tagged with `"nodes": "python"` and runs the upgrade across each one. The inventory stays current because it's populated by the workflows that provision the infrastructure.

## Shipping lineage to external systems

If you're already using OpenLineage-compatible tools (Marquez, DataHub, Atlan), Assets integrates with them. The [**AssetShipper**](https://kestra.io/plugins/core/asset-ee/io.kestra.plugin.ee.assets.assetshipper) task exports your asset metadata to external lineage providers in either `ION` or `JSON` formats:

```yaml
id: ship_asset_to_file
namespace: kestra.company.data

tasks:
  - id: export_assets
    type: io.kestra.plugin.ee.assets.AssetShipper
    assetExporters:
      - id: file_exporter
        type: io.kestra.plugin.ee.assets.FileAssetExporter
        format: JSON
```

This lets you maintain a single source of truth in Kestra while pushing lineage data to specialized catalogs for discovery and [governance](https://kestra.io/docs/enterprise/governance).

## Blueprints to get started

> Kestra's [Templated Blueprints](https://kestra.io/docs/enterprise/governance/custom-blueprints) lets you create reusable workflow templates that users can instantiate by filling out a form, no YAML editing required. Platform teams define the template once (including asset declarations), and other teams generate production-ready workflows by selecting options from dropdowns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kestra's [Templated Blueprints](../../docs/07.enterprise/02.governance/custom-blueprints/index.md) lets you create reusable workflow templates that users can instantiate by filling out a form, no YAML editing required. Platform teams define the template once (including asset declarations), and other teams generate production-ready workflows by selecting options from dropdowns.
```
